Having rural backgrounds, yes, absolutely.
And what did most of them, large or small animal, do you remember where there was much difference in there?
Surprisingly, over the years, the tendency not only in my class but in veterinarians in general is to gravitate towards small animal medicine, the reason being numerous.
The income is always much better in small animal medicine.
The hazards of the practice are much less in small animal medicine.
But was that true of their goals at that time?
Was that true, at that time did they, was that what they hoped to do?
When you all were in vet school?
Oh, no.
That's what I was... No, no.
I was going to be a large animal practitioner.
Was that the... And most of all of us were going to be large animal veterinarians.
That's what I thought, yeah.
Absolutely.
In fact, in 1960, you think back about it.
How many people treated
their dog and their cat like a child.
How true.
Compared with today.
We've got four of them.
Sure, sure.
Right here.
Sure.
In 1960, I didn't know of any of them.
That's the evolution that has taken place in that 40 years.
And I presume you could not generalize about urban kids
being small animal and rural kids being large animal, I presume there wasn't much difference in that.
No.
Even today, a lot of the urban kids go into large animal medicine.
Not knowing maybe what they're
Well, even most of them, though, want to go into horse work.
See, in the suburbs, they can own a horse or two and be involved in it, and a lot of them want to go into equine work, and you can make a good living in the right situation.
Did we have the Louisiana contract at that time?
Yes.
And how, were those students accepted and part of the group?
Oh, yes.
I believe that nine of our 64 were from Louisiana.
And were, and you said there were social events and was there good, for, for the married student, was there good student faculty contact out of class?
if you wanted to talk to somebody.
Oh, absolutely.
Did you develop a close advisor friend?
Dr. John Meliff was my closest advisor.
See, he taught neurology, and I was trying to learn to be one, and so I spent a lot of time with Dr. John.
Do you remember any basic advice about veterinary medicine that he may have given you?
Any guidelines or?
I think Dr. John taught you how to teach veterinary medicine with class.
He was a real role model for young faculty like myself.
Everybody looked up to him and respected him because of the way he did his job.
And the whole community looked up to him.
If there had been a vote of the graduating class to select their favorite veterinary faculty member, do you think he might have been there?
Probably.
I do.
Yes.
And let's see, was there any course that you thought of as just a fun course?
I'm not saying it's easy or anything.
That was one just more enjoyable?
I don't think so.
I took them all on with great enthusiasm.
I wanted to digest all of it as well as I could, and I think I enjoyed all of them, honestly, even biochemistry.
And it helped to have Benny Camp as a teacher.
I'm glad to see Benny still walking around looking halfway healthy.
Benny's always an inspiration.
He's such a gentle sort of person.
All right, as you approached commencement time as a DVM, how well prepared did you feel to go out into the real world of veterinary practice?
Well,
Approaching it, I felt wonderful.
I passed the state and national boards with flying colors.
I thought I knew everything they'd thrown at me.
I had all of my books and notes and materials to take with me.
And then I went out there and then I changed my mind.
Now, I'm assuming that one of the advantages you had was that you were a little older and a little more mature.
I hope both of those were applicable.
That those of you that had been out of the undergraduate program a little, a few years, did it, did you all make it through a little better than those who came straight from there?
Because in those days, couldn't you go two and then two years of pre-vent?
Yes.
All right, veterinary commencement.
Describe it, when you graduated and got that second degree.
Well, what can I say?
You know, there's only certain words you can use to describe the elation that you feel.
It's a combination of elation and relief.
And let me carry that a little further.
Graduation for us was in January because of the trimester switch in.
During the Christmas holidays, I had bought a home in Palestine, decided to go back to practice there where I'd been an assistant county agent, and I had moved my family up there.
And then, after graduation, I loaded what else I had
in my car, and I remember driving down University Drive toward Texas Avenue, and as I turned left on Texas Avenue, heading up to 21 to go to college to Palestine, I looked over my left shoulder at the campus, and I said, Goodbye forever.
That's a good one.
forever.
Forever lasted three years.
Did you, you began your own practice or did you join somebody?
I had made arrangements to go into practice with the fellow that I spoke to you about before and I went up there.
He and his brother-in-law were in practice together.
They had a general mixed practice, did a lot of large animal work, but I was
quickly disillusioned.
I'm, I'm not a purist but I'm, I try to do things as best as I'm able to do and I was disappointed in the way that one of the two practiced medicine in fact to the point that I couldn't tolerate it and I said I, that helped encourage you to, I went across town and
and set up my own practice and practiced for three more years by myself.
And I learned that practicing veterinary medicine as a solo practitioner means that you're married to your work, not to your family.
They use you up completely.
For three years, I didn't see my children play little league ball.
I worked seven days a week basically.
I tried to get to church on Sunday, made it some of the time, some of the time I didn't.
And I finally said, this is not the way to raise your children.
And let me tell you what made me call Dr. Elliott and ask him if that job was open.
It was my barber.
On a Saturday night, I finally got home about 7.30, and I was eating supper by myself, and the phone rang, and it's my barber.
He said, my little daughter's puppy is sick.
Could you look at it?
Sure, meet me over at the clinic.
So, I woofed down the rest of my food, drove over there and met him,
By the way, haircuts were 75 cents.
This was 1967, 75 cents for a haircut, at least in his shop.
Brought the little eight-year-old girl in with a little puppy, obviously had to stimp her because he hadn't had it vaccinated.
Snotty nose fever and, you know, the whole nine yards and
I said, you know, we're dealing with a viral infection that may or may not kill the dog, has a better chance of killing it than not, so all I can do is treat it symptomatically.
I gathered up medication, put it in a sack, and handed it to the little girl, and he said, how much is the bill?
And I figured it out, and I distinctly remember to this day, I'll never forget it, the bill was $8 for an emergency call at 8.30 on Saturday night,
all these medications.
Eight dollars, okay.
The barber had a stroke.
He started cursing.
I was a thief.
He pulled his billfold out, got a five dollar bill out and threw it on the floor.
He said, that's all you get.
And he stomped out the door and left his daughter in.
the examiner room with me.
So I talked to his little girl.
She was crying, of course.
I told her how to give the medicine, when to give it, and everything, and to call me if things didn't go well.
And I took her by the hand.
She was carrying a little dog.
I took her out and put her in.
He was driving a little truck.
I walked around the front.
I handed him his $5 bill, and I said, I've forgotten his name.
I don't even want to know it.
I said, here's your money.
You don't owe me a thing.
I said, I just don't ever want to see you again.
Bye.
And that's when I called Ned Elliott.
I said, this ain't no way to live a life.
That's right.
Some summarization questions now on what we've got left.
put together all of these A&M years and what it has meant to you.
You said responsibility a while ago.
Any other general things that you think came out of your A&M experience that have been important to you?
Well, Dr. Monroe, I don't have enough time to say all of the things that I've got out of my A&M experience.
A&M has been my life.
You know, I don't want to say, well, A&M is first and God is second and family is third.
Everything that I am as a professional is due to A&M.
Not only what I have learned technically in my career, but what I have learned about relationships between people
what I've learned about leadership, teaching.
A&M is my life and my family and my God and all of us are a big family together.
I get tears in my eyes just watching the band march in.
So you think that line in the song is correct, there is a spirit that can never be told?
Absolutely.
Yes, sir.
I think I agree with you.
And my wife is a wonderful adopted Aggie.
She feels the same way.
She's a Saul Ross graduate.
Oh.
All right.
If you were a consultant today brought in to advise A&M,
First of all, about the undergraduate experiences, what advice would you give A&M's leadership about we're going to do undergraduate and then vet school?
You're the consultant and you're advising them on what they should do now and in the future to keep A&M what it ought to be.
What advice would you give them?
Well, first I would say that I'm not patting myself on the back saying that I know any more than anybody else is, but I know what I think of A&M and I know what it's done for me and I have watched it for a long time.
And I know that A&M is basically good.
It provides a good environment for good people to come together to learn how to make a living and how to relate to people.
My goodness, fine tune.
Learn how to deal with the numbers.
44,000, where do you stop?
Learn how to find places for them to park.
Just fine-tune.
One of the big criticisms I've had is please don't let every ladder climbing administrator that passes through College Station
try to tear it down and remake it his way.
Please don't let that happen.
And please quit saying that hiring our own graduates is bad.
Hiring too many of them is bad.
I agree with that.
Hiring our own graduates is not bad.
It's which ones we hire.
Man, it does such a wonderful job of holding the rest of us together until we learn how to be one of us.
having that sense of ownership, that loyalty, that esprit de corps, that love for, you can't buy it with a ladder climber.
I'm not being critical of them.
They are good for us too.
Just quit saying we shouldn't hire our own.
We should hire some of our own because they're good people too.
Now that you're the consultant to the vet school, what would you advise the leadership there to do, not to do?
Well, I'm full of it, of course, as far as advice, and I don't want to be gentle in the way that I tell Richard Adams how to do his job.
I'm not going to do that, of course, but I'm going to nudge him a little, and I already have, and I respect him.
He earned the job and he are one of us.
He's an Aggie.
The things that bother me
about the vet school and about any other part of the campus relative to faculty is when we began to allow other things than teaching to be priority one.
I'm not with you on that, what you mean there.
Other things other than teaching.
Is that what you're saying?
things other than teaching to be priority number one.
Oh, I'm with you now.
Basically, research.
I'm not criticizing research, I believe in it 100%, but Dr. Shattuck, please don't stand up in front of our people and say,
our best researchers make our best teachers.
Please don't say that.
Ain't necessarily true.
That ain't necessarily true.
It might be true, but it ain't in general true.
Just as our best clinicians don't make the best teachers.
Don't make the researcher out to be the epitome of what teaching is about.
Put things in perspective and use those good researchers that are also good teachers and don't bring a researcher in like Dr. My goodness, world-renowned researcher over there in the vet school.
One of those blanks.
Don't bring him in the classroom to teach clinical medicine.
Bring him in the classroom to inform the students of what's going on in the research lab.
Utilize what he's got in the right way.
Don't bring him into the classroom to teach something that is three miles over the students' heads.
I see that way too often.
In terms of the comparative curriculum,
of the vet school today and the comparative number of students admitted, are we about on target, you think, today?
Say that one more time.
Is the curriculum in the vet school today about appropriate for veterinary medicine today?
I have been retired since August the 31st, 1995, going on six years.
The curriculum is forever changing.
Oh, okay.
It is hard for me to sit here today and tell you that it is appropriate for the times.
I want to say that my goodness if it's not, heaven forbid.
I think in general the vet school stays up to date and appropriate with what they present to those students over there.
All right, and in terms of admitting 128 or whatever it is, do you think that's probably an appropriate size for?
Yes, there's one thing that relative to numbers of graduates, be it physicians, lawyers, or veterinarians or what have you, back in the early 80s when the economy was not very good, spokespersons for the TVMA, I'm ashamed to say,
stood right up at one of the conventions and said, we must do something about the numbers of graduates that we're producing.
We need to cut back on them.
And I want to tell you there's nothing that makes my blood boil more than that.
You mean you want us to not allow these bright young people to pursue an education in veterinary medicine so you can make more money?
I don't believe in that.
I think I'm agreeing.
And I never will.
128, sure, we're going to have 20 million people in this, probably already do.
128 have been graduated every year now for, gosh, now only 20 years or better.
Okay, getting ready to end.
If you, if somebody walked up to you and handed you a check for a million dollars with one condition, you have to pass it on to Texas A&M, but you've got to decide the use that will be made of that gift.
If you could make a big gift to Texas A&M, for what purpose would you want that money used?
You can decide it.
A million dollars is not much money these days, as you know.
It wouldn't build a very big parking lot and it wouldn't help with faculty salaries.
I would want the money to go where it could be, its use could be appreciated by the students.
Honestly, I think the faculty are paid well enough.
I was always paid more than I was worth.
and by the way the starting salary in 1967 was $10,000 a year for a 12-month appointment working seven days a week and hoping you could get off for Christmas and Thanksgiving and I was happy with it and have been ever since.
I worked there 28 and a half years and when I quit I was making close to $80,000 a year which was more than I needed honestly.
I would want the money to go to benefit the students.
Scholarships or?
Scholarships would be wonderful.
How would you select the recipients?
I would select the recipients based on evidence of responsibility.
Okay.
Evidence of responsibility is their track record that they've already made.
Okay, in my questions, I'm now, unless we've left something out, next to the last question.
To what people connected with Texas A&M, be they students, former students, faculty or what, to what A&M related people do you feel the greatest gratitude in terms of what it's meant to your life?
To whom are you the most grateful?
You're saying a group of people, not an individual.
No, no, no.
What individuals?
Earl Rudder.
Does that surprise you?
Yeah, because I didn't know that you had any relation with him, personally.
I have a tremendous relationship with him.
He was, he was my boss.
Okay, all right.
He was my World War II hero.
Okay.
He's my fellow Aggie.
He's one of my heroes.
Who else that you're grateful to?
I'm always grateful to Ray George for helping me out with a scholarship, giving me a chance, giving me a second chance when I goofed up, being a gentleman and a good role model for young people.
There's
Many, many, many, my goodness, many, many, many, many.
The Aggie family is large and it's chock full of wonderful people that I respect.
That's marvelous.
All right, now have we left out any important topics that you can think of that we should have included?
If not, I've got only one question left.
Well, there's one statement that I would make and it's not important to anybody but me.
My experience with A&M has been long.
It's been a wonderful experience.
It has included athletics and academics and I want to say that as an Aggie, as a father,
As a former faculty member and former jock, if you will, I'm disturbed by the trend that I see in athletics at the college level.
The emphasis is way out of bounds, and I wish there's some way that we could
move back toward academics more and less emphasis on athletics.
I agree with you.
My last question, what feelings do you carry in your heart today for Texas A&M?
What feelings?
How do you feel about this institution?
It's just a four-letter word, love.
That's a great ending.